# Digital Advertising Is Not the Next Internet Bubble – Here’s Why

Does digital advertising really deliver the value it claims? Is it the next huge bubble waiting to burst? Let's examine the premises in this post.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
For decades, marketers have been trying to achieve the “holy grail” or marketing perfection: reaching the right person, with the right message, at the right time.
And throughout that time, generation after generation of marketers have come away with the same realization.
What is simple in theory is maddeningly difficult in practice and near-impossible at scale.
But then things changed (or so we thought) as the advertising ecosystem began a slow, unyielding march online.
After all, digital advertising is superior to its predecessors.
It is built on mountains of user data, dominates every aspect of our life, and provides every advertiser with the level of granular control previous generations could only dream about.

# Behavioral Advertising

At the core of this digital advertising revolution is “behavioral advertising” – the technique by which advertising platforms use thousands (or more) data points to micro-target users, who can then be served hyper-targeted, hyper-relevant messages at the “moments that matter,” to borrow a phrase from Google.

The holy grail is finally within reach.

Behavioral advertising – in just the last few years – has been credited with:

* Shifting the outcome of a presidential election.
* Building dozens of “unicorns.”
* Helping thousands more companies survive a once-in-a-generation pandemic.

It has been touted as an advertising revolution – the thing that will forever change how advertising and marketing are viewed.
But does it really work?
Or is it all just a fiction?
In his forthcoming book, “Subprime Attention Crisis,” Tim Hwang (the former policy director at Google) argues that the entire digital ad business is built on a series of frauds, which if exposed could bring the digital economy to its knees.
Wired recently reviewed Hwang’s book – and it is this review on which I’ll base this article.
As I understand it, Hwang’s argument goes something like this (also, this is an exciting opportunity for me to put that logic course from college to good use):

1. Digital advertising doesn’t deliver the value it claims (more specifically: digital advertising “doesn’t work” and is “worthless”), due to a horrible combination of bad data and waste, fraud, and abuse.
2. Nevertheless, brands continue to invest hundreds of billions into digital advertising each year, so ad prices continue to increase despite no corresponding increase in the overall value of the good being sold (the digital ads).
3. The profits generated by digital advertising fuel the growth of the digital economy, from content/news sites to cutting-edge research into artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, and green energy.
4. The digital economy plays a central role in the health of the overall economy.
5. If brands realize (1), they’ll cease online advertising.
6. If (5), then by (2), digital ad prices will fall.
7. If (6), then the profits referenced (3) will no longer exist.
8. Thus, by (3) and (4), a cessation of digital advertising could have wide-ranging and catastrophic impacts to the broader global economy.
